Most coronary artery stents
are placed through the femoral artery
in the inner thigh.
The catheter carrying the stent
is advanced through the circulatory system
to the heart and into the blocked coronary artery.
Another common approach
is through the radial artery in the wrist.
In this approach, the catheter is passed up the arm
and into the blocked coronary artery.
Once in the coronary artery,
radiopaque dye is used to verify
the stent is positioned correctly in the blockage.
A balloon in the catheter is inflated
to open the blocked artery.
The stent is pushed out
to hold the artery open.
The balloon is deflated
and the catheter is removed,
leaving the stent in place.